If data is the bottleneck, if having the
real expertise is the bottleneck, like
would you rather have the smartest
person in history work at your company
or someone who's been there for 30
years? And sometimes you really want the
person who's been there for 30 years.
There's a lot of expertise that comes
from really understanding a problem
deeply and interacting with it over a
long time. And this is really what
happens in training that is almost
impossible to replicate in a a short
prompt. You really want the ability for
institutional knowledge to compound over
time, for best practices to compound
over time. And this is how institutions
and companies uh grow to be really
powerful and successful is they stand on
the shoulders of what they've done
before rather than kind of resetting
every day. Yeah. And we want to have
this be accessible to any company that
wants to do this. And I think that's how
we thought about approaching it,
especially as software becomes easier
for people to manipulate, as the barrier
to entry for [music] coding becomes
easier, we see the same happening for AI
research.
Will and Johannes work at Prime
Intellect, which is one of the coolest
new labs in AI right now. Uh your
mission is to make frontier lab training
accessible to everyone, which I think is
a very noble mission. You have really
really strong taste and just developer
feel and just understanding how to, you
know, that that intuition for what what
developers care about. And then what you
all launched with uh the reinforcement
learning environments hub was like
really really differentiated and people
were very excited about. And so I'm
excited to chat about many topics with
you all today. Um post-training,
reinforcement learning, agent harnesses,
uh your platform, the RL hub, and then
big picture questions on what's what's
coming next in in post-training and RL.
Does that work? Sounds good. Absolutely.
Maybe to get started, you are one of the
leading research labs enabling customers
to post train their agents. Can Can me
about, you know, what what is that? What
does that mean?
Yeah, for sure. Happy to take that one
and yeah, give a bit of a higher-level
overview of like what our platform does
as well as our research at Prime
Intellect. Um yeah, so as already
mentioned at the beginning, we try to
make yeah, frontier infrastructure
available to any like startup,
enterprise, and yeah, new lab as well.
And uh yeah, basically the
infrastructure that yeah, is currently
locked behind the walls of the big labs
where yeah, nobody really has access to
them and um
yeah, we really um start from like the
compute layer and the compute
orchestration layer and go all the way
up then to the entire full uh
post-training stack. So, everything from
like the training frameworks that are
needed to do large-scale reinforcement
learning to um yeah, the environments
with yeah, a bit of a more community
approach with our environment hub to
yeah, other pieces that are actually
needed to do this like um yeah,
sandboxes for secure code execution and
um yeah, evaluations as part of our
environment hub as well. And yeah, to
offer this like as an end-to-end um
yeah, product in a sense.
And what's the intuition for for Why
even why pursue that mission statements
of making all that infrastructure
available to everyone?
Yeah, there's a lot of reasons. I think
one is and I think something that we are
very passionate about is just like open
science as a way that humanity moves
forward where like a lot of the big
scientific discoveries historically have
been things that we we talk about and as
a world we can kind of build on top of
but kind of more practically speaking as
well, there's a lot of value in model
customization where we are like the
winning applications are using AI for a
specific thing, for some agent, for some
workflow where you also want to be able
to deliver this at scale and with
cost-effective performance. Uh and so
really the way to kind of
really optimize these systems end to end
is to be able to have access to the
model weights directly where you can
then craft the model to be the best
model for your problem rather than some
model off the shelf where the crafting
happens just in a prompt. And so, it's
it's really just allowing a deeper layer
of customization than what you can do at
the prompt level.
And then is your vision vers- uh vision
for the future then that you know, every
company will be pre-training their own
models, post-training their own models,
uh fine-tuning their like what what do
you think the future holds? We
definitely think that every company will
be an AI company, and we think most AI
companies will want to have an AI
research lab. And research can look like
many different things. It can look like
pre-training, especially if you're in a
domain where you maybe don't just want
text in, text out. If you want something
more uh bespoke. Um in a lot of cases it
will be like post-training agentic or
otherwise uh kind of focused models for
specific tasks and workflows.
Um and I think that's getting to the
point where it's productionizable and
cost-effective where you can actually
make this very practical for people to
do at scale for kind of the right shape
of problems that people want to solve.
Awesome.
And then can you say at high level what
your platform does? Yeah, so we have a
full-stack research platform called Lab.
And Lab is about giving everybody the
ability to do the things that a frontier
research lab can do internally, but for
anyone in the world who wants to do this
kind of research. And uh a big focus of
Lab is the notion of an environment. And
so I think a lot of people have heard
the term environment in the context of
reinforcement learning, and that's a big
focus of it for us, which is that it an
RL environment is encapsulating the
things you need to do to do
reinforcement learning, where you can
have a model improve via trial and
error. But it's also more general beyond
just reinforcement learning. And I think
if you haven't heard of an environment
before, it's essentially the same thing
as the evals that get reported when
people talk about new model releases. So
SWE-bench and AMIE and Terminal Bench,
these are all examples of environments
where there's a data set of tasks,
there's a harness for the model to be
in, and there's something called a
rubric or reward function, which is
responsible for grading the quality of
the outputs. And so the same thing you'd
use as an eval offline as your kind of
your test set, uh you can use this in
reinforcement learning as your training
set. And this is a way to uh improve
model performance interactively. And so
our platform is really enabling people
to use environments in their workflows
for post training, for evaluation, for
synthetic data, for reinforcement
reinforcement learning. And it's also
very much focused on as a community
platform in the same way as things like
GitHub are, where this stuff is new,
it's complicated, and we want people to
have lots of building blocks they can
draw from and lots of examples and for
it to be collaborative and for people to
have reasons to kind of show off ways of
using uh models or different tools in
workflows as environments to allow other
people to post train models uh in those
environments to kind of have this way of
kind of sharing the ability to improve
performance across different tasks.
Awesome. I think the general idea is to
give more companies the actual ability
and advantage that's currently only the
big labs have in the sense of like this
product model optimization loop where
they um yeah, can optimize their models
um for their specific product in a
sense. And uh we see it as a yeah, thing
where um yeah, that's the kind of reason
why like a ChatGPT was created by OpenAI
or like a Claude code was created by
Anthropic. They actually have the
capabilities to yeah, optimize models
for their specific scaffolds in a sense.
And um yeah, where I have their models
work way better in their products. And
um the more popular those kind of
products are to become in a sense, like
a Claude code becoming extremely popular
right now, um there the big labs have
yeah, naturally less of uh an incentive
to actually make it work better for like
other coding startups in a sense, right?
And um the idea there is to to give them
the tools to have like their own like
model product optimization loop. Yeah.
And um yeah, I think they're early
adopters on that front. I think yeah,
one great example um
uh always in this case that I always
give is is Cursor, for example, um that
yeah, realized that in my opinion quite
early on. They built their own like
composer one model where they did like
large-scale post training in a sense.
And um
yeah, really optimized a model where the
environment was actually Cursor itself.
So, uh yeah, gives them all the tools
that like you have in Cursor in a sense
as well. And um yeah, uh, optimize a
model inside of Cursor. And yeah, we
believe there's a lot of more startups
that, yeah, will go in this direction
to, um, yeah, on the one side optimize
their current products in a sense, but
also, um, yeah, uh, build completely new
products that are really not possible
right now without having this product
model optimization loop. Awesome.
And can we say word on you said
something interesting? Um,
you said environments are just evals.
Um, can we can we dissect that
statement? In in my head an environment
is a it's state. It's a description of
world state. Um, through which, you
know, you observe what actions you take,
you observe how world state changes, and
therefore you update your world model.
That to me is distinct from an eval,
which is like, you should have gotten
this answer on this set of questions.
And so, can you help me merge those two
realities? Sure, yeah. So, I think
there's, um,
a version of eval that's kind of where
we were maybe a year or two ago where a
lot of evals were like question and
answer, uh, and it's like this big bank
of questions. And then maybe there's
other notions of environment that people
think about when they talk about like,
uh, I don't know, old school RL with
like Atari that is much more about like
this kind of long-running uh, state
interaction loop. And I think where we
are now is it's both in the same thing
where
especially the the environments that you
want to do large scale training on, they
do have this complex state. They maybe
are simulating a web app. It's a
full-fledged kind of coding platform
where you have an agent doing these
things, but in those in the original RL
games, there's always a reward. There's
a goal. Uh, and so, the the notion of
there being a goal of this problem where
it's not just running through some
system and a human's going to kind of
vibe check it. There actually is
something that can measure progress and
performance. And that that's kind of
what I mean by it's un-eval in that
there is a system that it starts at some
state, it
uh, interacts with the system and the
environment, the harness, the, uh, the
agent, whatever you want to call it.
>> Yeah. Um, but there is some goal. And
there's a way to measure whether it's
doing well or not. Hm. Okay, got it. Um,
and then is there a difference between
you mentioned kind of Cursor as a great
example of somebody who's doing really
great frontier work uh in reinforcement
learning. Um is there a good way to
think about when should you be kind of
constructing RL environments versus when
should your actual application and your
application states be the
the environment, so to speak?
Yeah, I think there's definitely reasons
where you want both. Especially like
let's say you're training a model to be
a really good Rust coding model. Here
you might want it to be good for lots of
different applications where you'd have
different environments that are focused
on some like domain task. Maybe you're a
company that wants a model that's going
to be really good at calling your tools
or using your specific uh domain
language that then you can provide as a
service to people who are building
around that. Um then there's also ones
where the product very much is like a
user interface for an end user where the
user's interacting with an agent, in
which case it might make the most sense
for the product to very directly become
the environment where I I think the the
companies who might want to be doing
this are the same who care about whether
they're using Claude or GPT-5 or Gemini
or the ability to choose models and have
internal systems to evaluate whether a
certain system prompt is good or whether
changing out a model endpoint is good or
whether using the mini version of a
model is a better uh cost-performance
trade-off. The infrastructure to do that
is that a lot of people have already
been building at these kind of advanced
agent companies is the same
infrastructure you use to do
reinforcement learning. And so I think
that's kind of this uh kind of
convenient world we ended up in where
the training paradigm that makes the
most sense for improving model
capabilities is the same sort of thing
that a lot of people have been building
up the muscle for just without doing the
training piece. And so that's kind of
where we see RL being a very useful tool
for people to then have this as an
option in their toolkit for system
optimization. Got it. Okay. Um
Let's talk about agent harnesses as they
apply RL. I feel like harnesses like the
the theme of the moment, especially with
you mentioned Claude code getting so
much love. I think one of the things
that they do exceptional engineering
around is the harness. Um harness and
RL, are those things orthogonal,
mutually exclusive? Like how do they
relate?
They definitely relate. Um I think the
way I think of a harness is like a piece
of the environment and so
there's some for any like eval or
environment task there's some input
a bunch of stuff is going to happen then
there's some output state which is then
going to be graded and so this whole
intermediate piece whether it's
interacting with some simulator or
interacting with some other agent or
physical world sim this is the
environment and the harness is very much
a piece of that
couples how the model interacts with any
other pieces of the system and I think
depending on the application area like I
think for coding agents we have a pretty
clear like definition of what's the you
could say the harness is the CLI coding
agent and the the terminal is the
environment but this isn't necessarily
going to be universal across like all
different types of agents in some cases
it's a system prompt and some tools is
the harness in some cases it's something
that is going to be spawning sub agents
and the sub agents also have their own
harnesses
and so there's a lot of complexity but I
think the way we've thought about it is
like harnesses are going to keep
evolving there's going to be this
Cambrian explosion of ways people want
to use models and we want to take a a
pretty general approach in defining what
you could do with a harness
and so what we are really thinking about
and why we use the term environment as
the abstraction is like agent is too
narrow harness is like kind of too
narrow and you can do all of these
things within an environment but the
environment
as a abstraction on the whole allows
this any sort of system model
interaction is in scope.
And then do you think then
do you think all companies should be
post training their models with
environments
are there specific kind of you know
where the bullseye like you absolutely
need to be using environments or is it
like you could be post training with a
different method versus you should just
be prompting your thing? I mean I think
environments are tools you can use to do
all of these things and so I think
that's one of when I talk about kind of
environments beyond RL I think part of
the reason why it's a useful abstraction
is because it doesn't tie you to RL.
Let's say I want to have a small model
and I want it to be distilled from a big
model. The way you can do this is you
take the big model, you plug it in your
environment, you let it run a bunch of
times. Now you have a lot of this data
that comes from the same interaction
protocol. You can use the same grader at
the end to filter for the best examples
and then do SFT fine-tuning on that. You
could do prompt optimization with an
environment. You could AB test different
models with an environment you would
with an eval. Um and so we really I
think the idea is that every AI company
should be optimizing their AI systems.
Mhm.
>> I think that's a less like controversial
take. Okay. And maybe there's another
way to frame it. Like the the eval is
almost how your agent performs in the
set of environments that you expect your
customers to face.
Yeah, I think it um
it depends on what you want to call like
and then in kind of traditional machine
learning terms, you don't want to
overfit to the test set. Um and so in
some ways we kind of are already
accepting that we're going to be like
using the test set or the eval to
measure to have that kind of filter back
into the model. Um and so it I think
it's a little tricky to distinguish even
like what is the eval, what is the
environment. Um we kind of think of them
as one in the same.
Um
and
we use the environment term very
generically where an eval is a type of
environment that's used for measuring
performance but not training on. Um
and that's kind of how we see a lot of
people thinking about when they're doing
evals, what they really mean they're
doing is they have some way of measuring
current performance and they're
iterating on it. And in some ways RL is
this iteration applied at scale where
you're automatizing the process of
changing the model a little bit,
changing the prompts a little bit um and
having this be the way that you can kind
of hill climb on some goal. Let me ask
you another question. Do you see
reinforcement learning as synonymous
uh from functionally with post-training?
Meaning like if your post-training model
are you doing reinforcement learning or
are you doing other things?
There's definitely a lot of thing I
think reinforcement learning is like the
big thing now where it's like in many
cases practically speaking, the if
you're doing a large scale model,
RL will be where you spend the most of
your time and focus and compute. But
it's not the only thing you want to do.
There's a lot of things involved in the
whole process of going from some initial
model to the system you want to deploy.
This can be prompt tuning, this can be
SFT, this can be online distillation.
There's a number of algorithms that all
kind of are under this umbrella where RL
is like the big one in the middle, but
there's a lot of stuff around it. And uh
really I think exposing this tool could
be helpful to people and letting them
have all these knobs they can play with
is the way to unlock And are you finding
that it's the, you know, really smart AI
researchers that actually know how to
make this stuff happen in practice? Is
it, you know, towards your goal of
democratizing AI development for all,
you know, does your average Fortune 500
know how to use the platform and get
value out of it?
I think most companies have people who
can.
Um I think any Fortune 500 any Fortune
500 company will likely have a team of
AI engineers who are capable at
following the like latest tools, who are
good at using cloud code, who um
have a lot of opinions about models and
prompting. And those people certainly
can do this. That's kind of the audience
where we see as the target customer for
this.
>> Hm. Especially if you give them the
right tools to actually do it. Um like
maybe some of those large companies
don't really have anybody in there who
can like debug your TPU cluster in a
sense to actually kick off such a run.
Or um yeah, other components that are
needed in there to like actually just
make it easier in a sense to yeah, do
large scale like um agentic
reinforcement learning with tool use,
with code execution, and pieces like
this.
Um to yeah, just abstract away the the
entire infrastructure for them. Yeah,
got it. Um awesome. Actually on that
note, do you guys have any favorite
customer stories that you want to share?
Um yeah, one of our favorite customers
that I would like to uh yeah, point out
in a sense is RCI, a new lab working on
like frontier open models. Um I've been
working with us on, yeah, the entire
stack in a sense, right? Um, we've been
talking a lot about reinforcement
learning, right? Um, but yeah, we've
been, yeah, also doing a lot uh, large
scale pre-training in the past. Um,
that's basically where our history is
coming from in a sense as well, right?
So, uh, yeah, I've been training with
them some of the largest, uh, yeah,
mixture of expert models, um, and
actually able to, yeah, open source them
as well and, um, yeah, as well on the on
the post-training side, um, with them as
well. Um,
maybe, uh, Will, do you want to share
some more? Sure, yeah. So, they're a
very close collaborator of ours that
we've, I think, uh, we've all been
friends for a long time, but also like
we've been, uh, I think they've been way
where we've had the they've had a lot of
things that they want infra for and it's
that's been a way that we've been able
to kind of, uh, force us to build out a
lot of the pieces both from computer
orchestration to, uh, post-training to
pre-training to inference, um, around
kind of just making the everything that
is needed to kind of be a Frontier lab.
Um, and I think they're very aligned
with us in the kind of the openness
mission, um, and I think but I think
they're kind of focus they are more
targeted at like enterprises and the end
user where they are kind of going to
work more directly, um, with customers
in terms of like end-to-end, uh, kind
of, uh, delivery of a certain artifact
where I think where we come in is we
are, uh, we, uh, are really focused on
the developer experience at the infra
layer and the ways that we can make put
these tools into more people's hands
where the process of
going from idea to deployable model can
become as, uh, seamless and kind of
quick as possible and efficient as
possible. Awesome. And then any other
favorite customer stories maybe on
people that are using the Environments
product specifically? Yeah, so, we are
definitely really focused on like, uh,
the research community and like some of
this is like, a lot of grad students use
it, a lot of like students and people
who are getting, uh, early, uh, in like
their career learning how to do this
stuff are using it, but also a lot of
labs who are focused on a very specific
domain where, let's say you're starting
a medical AI lab. Uh, we work closely
with a number of groups in the medical
AI space where they want to create more
uh both uh
benchmarks to understand how good our
models are at medical capabilities both
in terms of diagnosis or patient
interactions or question answer about
medical literature um or agentic search
over certain medical tasks. Um and so
like so far OpenMed being two that we
work closely with um where the focus
there is to they really care about like
earning trust from the medical
professionals. Uh and so for them they
really want to focus on the domain and
not as much on kind of the the generic
medical uh the the LM infra that is kind
of like a headache for a lot of people.
And so for them like being able to kind
of have this platform for creating
evaluations, for showing them off, uh
for being able to use them to then
improve model capabilities that could
then be deployed locally in a hospital
or uh deployed locally for some end user
where the ability to have this
customization and have this kind of
end-to-end trust and understanding of
the data provenance for tasks at hand or
the ability to kind of customize models
very directly is very key.
Do you have any customers that are using
you for more of like what you call the
old-school kind of Atari style, you
know, learning from your environment
type?
By all do you mean like so I when I
think of Atari I think of like non-LLMs.
Um and so we definitely are focused on
LLMs and uh foundation models that look
like LLMs. Uh
there's definitely a lot of researchers
who uh use our platform for
uh these things that are more like
there's some examples we have on the
platform that are much more like games.
So I mean kind of one fun one that I use
like a demo a lot of is the game Wordle
from the New York Times where this kind
of ended up just being the like a great
hello world environment for people
because it's the infra is really simple
but it's very expressive where you can
kind of get a feel for it and you get
this aha moment of seeing a model learn
to think about the game as you give it
rewards for doing better and you can
have you can do it with a really tiny
model too. Like it's it's in the sweet
spot of difficulty where you can do
these runs on like a couple GPUs in an
hour uh and see a model actually learn
how to get better at the game and
Yeah, I would say like the more toyish
game examples yeah usually the ones that
people are going for for actually
learning how to build those
reinforcement learning environments and
yeah that's also what people are heavily
using the environment up for in a sense
just because we have all this
infrastructure built around it to
yeah be able to actually test and your
environments and um
that's usually how they start out and
then yeah go to actually building more
complex environments uh later on. Um
another group I would love to give a
shout out to in a sense that have been
building some of the more complex
environments on the hub
people part of our reinforcement
learning residency um where yeah we have
like a group we initially started out
with like eight to 10 people I think 14
to 16 are now in the group you have
people grad students as well as yeah
people working full-time that
part-time like building reinforcement
learning environments as well as doing
novel research on top of the environment
hub and yeah those folks have yeah built
yeah amazing
yeah environments in like all kinds of
verticals in a sense everything from
like verifiable software engineering
lean to medical physics environment to
some cyber security environments so uh
and then yeah also we give them the
tools obviously now to to actually do
the training in those as well. Yeah
awesome.
Um can you help demystify for me I've
heard that some of the foundational
model companies are spending you know
millions of dollars each on some of
these environments.
>> Yeah. Um and so like you mentioned cyber
security at the end so like
what goes into constructing a cyber
security environment?
Yeah so there's there's someone in our
residency program who actually does a
lot of the stuff and so like there
actually is a lot of like tooling in the
cyber security world around like these
kind of capture the flag games where
there's there's some system that has
some hidden bug in it and this is like a
challenge that pro originally these are
built for programmers or programmers
will have like a little hackathon where
they try to go find the bug in some
system but you can adopt these
challenges to
LLMs as well where it then is a a full
software environment, where it's a
terminal where the agent lives in the
terminal and has access to tools for
doing bash commands. Maybe it's using
Claude code or some other wrapper for an
agent harness, but it's in a terminal
full of files and can interact with
these files. And then at some point the
it marks that it's finished with the
rollout. And then you can grade the
state of the environment using other
pieces of software, other code that
executes.
Um, but we do like we actually have a
lot of people we work with who are in
the data and environment space, where we
found that um, there's a lot of
interest in using reinforcement learning
as a way to evaluate data quality, where
um, the ability to measure what happens
when you train a model on a set of
tasks, set of rubrics, set of
environments, uh, allows you to
understand bugs in the environments
because
uh, there are issues that come up in
reinforcement learning where maybe if
your environment has a a backdoor, a
model can exploit this and kind of game
the game the system. And so I think
there's a lot of interest in people
using RL to like in the pipeline from
like idea to environment that ends up in
some frontier labs, uh, like
foundational training run for the next
GPT or Claude model. There's a lot of
vetting that goes into this. And doing
these like smaller or like medium-scale
runs in like let's say one environment
allows you to really poke and see where
the problems might be. Okay, super
interesting. And then we take the
cybersecurity environment example one
step further. By the way, I have no no
particular affection for cybersecurity,
but it's something that like I I love
having a specific example in my head.
Um, I could see how you could construct
a toy example, right? These are capture
the flag examples. I would imagine
they're toy examples. I would imagine
they look nothing like the actual kind
of corporate network environments of a,
you know, real company with all of its
cybersecurity products. And so
I guess how do you construct an actual,
you know, does does what people can
construct, does it actually scale up
towards imitating and reflecting the
complexities of the real world? Almost
like the, you know, the robotics
sim-to-real gap?
>> Yeah. Um, is there a sim-to-real gap in
crafting these environments? And is
solution just to like train on like real
kind of corporate security environments?
Yeah, so I would say there's less of a
barrier in terms of the actual
complexity. Like the in principle these
can be as complex as you want. Um it's
anything that could be on a computer. So
just think of anything that's on a
computer or network of computers as
potentially an environment. What really
kind of uh becomes the bottleneck in
many ways is like cost of the simulator
where I think there's a lot of focus on
identifying clever ways to kind of mock
the right piece of the system where
let's say you have an agent that you
want to like let's say the internet.
Like let's say you want to have an agent
that like does a lot of like web search.
Yeah. In some cases you actually want to
do the real web search. In some cases
you want to find ways where you can
design tasks where you actually don't
need the full thing. Um it's like this
kind of uh I don't know
um
I think of like the map games where
there's this world you want to explore
where there might be this whole map and
like some of it's like dark but as you
walk around like the light shines then
you now see this part of it. And so if
you know which pieces of this map might
actually be explored on a given task
then this kind of allows you to decide
which pieces are important or not. And
so like one example uh like there's some
bench there's a benchmark called Tattoo
Bench that is very popular in the the
eval world where it's about customer
service agents involving a database. And
so the database is something where like
in a real system you might need the full
database but if you know that the agent
is only going to ask certain types of
questions for a task uh you don't need a
full database with millions of records
or thousands or or billions of of uh
like different examples. You can have
kind of a mock database that is uh a
cheaper to run maybe in memory piece of
software that um
only has the things that are expected by
the agent or expected in the the scope
for a given task. And so identifying
like the pieces of the system that where
the complexity is kind of overkill uh is
part of this task design process to
enable efficiency. And does your
platform help with that? Like it it
almost seems like
you know, if creating environments is
the bottleneck to training these
systems, then like being able to
efficiently create these environments
where, you know, you're lighting up the
part of the map that's we lit lit up is
like a core kind of almost platform
competency. Do you guys assist with
that?
>> Yeah, I mean, it's definitely a way that
we think about the design of everything
and we kind of go down a lot of these
different uh
like rabbit holes as we have to focus on
different tasks from working with
different people. And so like coding
agents maybe is one example where like
there's a lot of complexity that comes
up when working with um like sandboxes
and terminal states and ensuring that
you have like good snapshotting and all
these things and protocols to interact
with different agent harnesses. And so
we've built a lot around that, but it's
also the sort of thing that we kind of
know that the space of complexity is
going to grow arbitrarily over time as
people start uh getting more uh deep
into these different domains. And I
think we've tried to design everything
in a way where we we keep a lot of doors
open where like we have room to build
features that's kind of like there's
there's base layers of like generic
environments, then you can go I want a
coding agent environment. I want a
coding agent environment with a sandbox
that's global across the run. I want one
per rollout or there's lots of these
different branches you can go down. And
so we kind of have anticipated like
there will be a lot of these branches.
There's some that we've built for.
There's some that I think we're kind of
ready to build for when we need to. Um
and we also like think a lot about how
do you make a good developer experience
where let's say think about just
documentation or skill files for agents.
People are going to be using coding
agents when they're building these. And
so uh there's a lot of institutional
knowledge that gets built up when you're
doing this kind of research both for
like a specific project or as a research
team doing large-scale training runs.
And being able to surface this
information, some of it is directly in
the product. Some of it is in the way we
design the libraries. Some of it is in
documentation or skill files that get
shown to agents. And this is the sort of
thing where we we've designed it to be
something that can evolve over time as
like the research literature evolves as
the uh
best practices for different types of
complex agents become more clear. I
assume you guys read Sutton's
um
uh learning from What was it? Age of
experience?
>> Age of experience, yeah. Scale AI era
data labeling. Um
do you think that constructing
environments is sort of the natural
successor
to that?
Yeah, I mean it it very much seems like
it kind of already is, where it it does
seem like a lot of the focus from the
major labs has shifted to They're still
using a lot of human data, and so human
data doesn't seem to be going away
because creating these environments kind
of by definition is for things that
models aren't good enough at yet, which
means the humans are are better than the
models in some capacity. And so
identifying which pieces of information
the human can most uniquely assist the
model in improving its skill on, I think
is really the key to target, which is
how do you create this information flow
from the human who really has the expert
knowledge on how to do some sort of
thing, what does a job well done look
like, and get it into the model. And it
does seem to be that RL is the most
effective way to do this right now,
where having tasks with a
prompts to grade with an LM judge, a
rubric for what success looks like on a
task, is kind of the paradigm that's
emerging for a lot of these cases, where
a human Sometimes it's through a reward
model, but kind of the most direct
visceral version of it is
There's a set of questions about yes no,
was this done in the LM's answer, and
that turns into the reward score. And so
that requires a lot of human data. Okay.
Awesome. Um
why create a hub for environments?
Yeah, I think the hub idea um started by
seeing a lot of different like open
source repos out there that had like
overflowing implementations of all those
environments in a sense, and um yeah,
and in general like we already or we'll
already created the nice uh verifiers
framework um before we even started the
environment hub, right? Uh where you had
different inside examples for
environments in there, and it was very
much a um yeah, an approach to like
standardize the whole process even more
process even more. Yeah. Um and beyond
that, um, just uh, beyond just like
sharing those environments, right? And
having like an open source platform for
it, it's also about having like a place
where you can build a lot of, um, yeah,
infrastructure around them, which you
can't really do if you just upload them
to like a GitHub repo or something like
this. So, um, yeah, having a proper
evaluations, uh, like integrated with
your environments, so you can like
immediately, um, test them across all
frontier models is one of the features,
um, yeah, people are heavily using, um,
the environment hub then for, right? Um,
you make it extremely easy to install
one of those environments inside of, uh,
yeah, a uh, a different trainer. So, um,
there we obviously have our own like
large-scale trainer with with Primer RL,
which we've been, yeah, heavily
optimizing for this, but yeah, we are
very open there on the open source side
to integrate with like a bunch of
different trainers because people have
different, um,
yeah, needs on on the trainer side as
well. Yeah. And, um, yeah, that's how
how the whole idea of the environment
hub, uh, yeah, um,
And what is the community behavior then?
Like, do you see people forking,
modifying these environments? Do you see
them, you know,
putting something 80/20 out in the
public domain and then like, you know,
we're going to keep our secrets for
ourselves and, you know, not share that
back. Like, what's the community
behavior? Yeah, I mean, there's
definitely a lot of people we work with
who want to keep their environments
private, as you understand. But the
value for them of it being a hub is that
they can do ablations on ones that are
kind of known to be they can compare
their private one versus some public one
that might be on a similar type of task.
Or for evals, there's a lot of value in
having kind of, uh, mixed in uh, uniform
implementations of popular benchmarks in
a way that if you're doing a training
run, you can plug in some known eval as
a way to monitor the progress of your
run. And so, maybe you're doing well on
your environment, you can see does your
environment also generalize to other
tasks. And so, having all these other
tasks available is a really helpful way
for people to be able to, um, understand
not just their own task, but other
things they might want the model to be
good at as well. Yeah, awesome. What are
the most popular environments on the hub
today? Yeah, I think it tends to be the
ones that are these kind of uh, one is
the ones that we use as the examples in
the documentation that naturally in
software tends to be the most popular
ones.
>> Wordle stuff? The Wordle is one popular
but I think one that we see a lot of
like interest around and people one
where I think there has been the most
degree of people kind of branching and
forking and turning it in different
versions is one that we call Wiki Search
which is doing search over Wikipedia
pages but it's designed to be this
template you could use for agentic
search more broadly. So the there's a
lot of applications where people want
agents that know how to search over
their internal documents or documents
for a specific type of information and
having this kind of template for if you
just you just have to swap out the
documents. And now you have this
environment ready to go where the the
rest of it is already kind of set up
that tends to be the sort of thing where
we see a lot of value in people being
able to
bring other types of documents that
they'd want to do agentic search over.
Yeah, got it. Okay, awesome.
Um, I want to maybe shift towards future
research, you know, big blue sky
questions.
Maybe the first one
Andre I think is one of your one of your
angels as well. He kind of has that
infamous quote of you know, RL is you
know, it's it's amazing but it's it's
quite inefficient and it's like sucking
bits from a straw.
I guess do you agree with that and what
do you think is going to happen in the
research side to make RL more efficient?
Yeah, I mean I think um
it's definitely true that RL is using a
lot of compute to get a pretty kind of
small signal in terms of pure
information but I think in some ways
that's part of the value of it as well
and I think one of the reasons that a
lot of the the labs have really focused
on it is that one of the bottlenecks
that's hard to scale is human data
especially high quality human data
um and RL allows you to kind of trade
off compute for data in a sense where
you can get a lot of value out of a
smaller amount of data by using more
compute
um
and so the supervision comes coming from
this data is like small that you can get
a lot out of it more so than you can via
pre-training or supervised fine-tuning
alone. Uh as well as um it's useful in
cases where you don't necessarily have
golden examples. So, like if you have a
bigger model to distill from, that's
great. But, if you're already at the
biggest model size that you have access
to, um then you kind of need to go into
untrodden territory, and exploration is
really the heart of RL. It's how do you
explore and try out different things?
And maybe there are ways to do
exploration that are more efficient than
RL that people will kind of discover,
but this is kind of currently the the
frontier of using compute to explore and
improve capabilities. And so, it's what
we got for now.
For sure. And I think uh like I can't
speak for Andre, obviously. Um But yeah,
I would be curious to hear his views
like 2 months later after the latest
like Dwarkesh podcast in a sense on um
his views, especially on the coding side
for uh like uh large-scale reinforcement
learning and how it actually helps
there. Um if we look at something like
like Claude code, which definitely was
already popular before, but definitely
popped up more uh over the last uh like
1 month, I would say. Um then
yeah, my yeah, his views might change in
a sense on like uh the specific piece of
how uh yeah, useful reinforcement
learning can be in the in the coding
domain. Yep.
>> Um but yeah, generally we we don't think
that's going to be the end in a sense,
right? Um we generally think we want to
be always at the frontier of like what
comes next in terms of paradigms. Um
yeah, there's definitely lots of
low-hanging fruit still on the like
pushing agentic eye capabilities even
further. Um but uh yeah, we also like uh
know there's limitations in a sense,
right? Like some of the pieces we've
been working on um where we definitely
see limitations is on the yeah, context
side. Um so, um yeah, I think there are
um yeah, we we just like have a hard
limit right now of how much uh like uh
tokens we can fit into a context, and
you have been thinking there about ways
on how to actually improve that in a
sense. Yeah.
Awesome.
Um switching gears a little bit.
Open source, open weight models.
>> Mhm.
Um
what do you see what do you see the role
open open-weight models play?
Does your infrastructure
um kind of work only on or work
optimally on open-weight models? Could
you kind of help people do post training
around the closed-weight models? How
does that all work?
Yeah, so in in many ways like the the
trainer itself is going to require
having access to the weights and so if
anyone who has closed-weight models
wants to use it, we have we're happy to
chat. Um but more broadly the idea of
the environment is general across
different types of optimization and so
we can do use the the same
infrastructure at the environment level
for doing evals on uh closed models, for
doing prompt tuning on closed models,
for doing model selection, for
evaluating agent harnesses. There's a
lot of research that can be done around
closed models just by having a way to do
this experimentation.
>> Yep. Uh and so it whether using open or
closed models, um it's or you can create
data that some platforms might let you
upload some examples that maybe you're
distilling from a particular model into
another um where you use the environment
as this data engine. Um so there's a lot
of different ways you can use the tools
to optimize models.
And do you need need need the weights?
Like for example, can you kind of Laura
uh Yeah, so I mean the Laura I would
consider still part of the fine-tuning
process and that's what we recommend a
lot of people do for RL anyways. Um and
so like you don't need that necessarily
with the full weights but like you can't
I can't upload my own Laura for GPT-5.
Um but I could bring an environment to
the platform potentially. Um and so I
think there's a lot of different ways
you can do partial customization and I
would imagine that in many cases the
degree of like how many do you need
Laura adapter do you need full
fine-tuning is going to depend on the
training recipe as well as the goal of
your optimization.
>> Yeah. What about can you do
reinforcement learning on like the agent
harness around a closed model?
Yeah, so I would definitely consider
this in the domain of like like there's
a a few world of prompt optimization
that some people have uh been exploring
in the research world that is in some
ways kind of an analog of RL but in
prompt space where Like the DSPY
>> Yes, exactly. And so like the GEPA
algorithm got a lot of attention like
like last year as kind of a a
what seemed to be a better way of doing
this. And so we support we have support
for that as well with our environments.
Yeah. Um where you can do this around
different pieces of the harness where
this might be what's the prompt used for
a certain tool, what's the agent skill,
what's the system prompt. There's a lot
of these things that you can apply
different types of optimization to.
Awesome. While we're on the topic of
DSPY, um I think the DSPY authors also
have this new thing that is the current
thing.
Uh what was it? Recursive language
models? Yes. What do you guys think?
Yeah. Um yeah, definitely very
interesting that um yes, I um yeah,
already said earlier in the sense we are
very interested in like um yeah, longer
horizon agents and so on and like
actually solving things for those um to
move a few use cases and uh yeah, been
internally thinking for a long time
about uh like how can we um yeah, have
models learn how to manage their own
context. Um so um right now people are
building a lot of scaffolds for context
management and yeah, we believe uh like
something that is a bit more bit bit a
little bit in the sense is to have the
model learn how to manage its own
context. And um yeah, I've been yeah,
searching for different research in this
kind of domain for a pretty long time
and yeah, the recursive language model
uh research direction is one of the
yeah, most promising ones in our
opinion. Um we've been yeah,
uh since yeah, Alex saying who's the
original author of the RLM work um yeah,
published it. We've been yeah, very
interested in this kind of work, have
been yeah, exploring it um as part of
our like research as well. And um yeah,
there were blog posts out um couple of
weeks ago that um
yeah, basically showed um using this RLM
harness where you um yeah, pretty much
give a language model access to um a
variable in a persistent Python wrapper
so it can
not have this whole context or the whole
data as input in a sense but it has it
in this variable that it can then yeah
retrieve it can transform it and
yeah manage its own context through that
and then also call other like sub
elements where the recursive part comes
from to actually like
manage it and
yeah that's the whole idea behind the
recursive language model we've been
doing
yeah some exploration there on this
front to actually just give
current like frontier language model
access to this yeah specific
LM harness. So not necessarily training
in this harness but just giving it
access to this specific
way of like dealing with its own context
and yeah it's been all be shown to like
improve benchmarks on yeah very long
horizon reasoning quite a bit and yeah
we are very excited as like a new
frontier in a sense to actually train in
this as well to let the model train well
train the model to actually use this
harness
and yeah that's what we're going to work
on over the next couple of months. Super
exciting.
What else in the research domain? You
guys have great research taste. What
What do you think is on the horizon?
I'm really excited about synthetic data
research and it feels like
there's a lot of stuff that feels like
we should be able to do it
but you haven't really seen it emerge in
the open in terms of creative ways of
doing kind of self-reflection
um
and
I think people talk a lot about
continual learning as this kind of idea
that we're we're going to have to get
better at models kind of learning things
on their own and I think the idea of um
using uh
other tricks that we already know in
conjunction in different ways things
like prompt optimization things like uh
distillation
um
in conjunction with synthetic data
it feels like there's a lot of I don't
want to kind of go too deep into
different directions, but it seems like
there's a lot of room for exploration
around having models curate their own
training data, maybe curate their own
environments, um, and understanding
which versions of this are most
effective for like lifelong learning.
Love it.
Okay, we're going to close on an
optimistic note. Um, if everything goes
right, what does the world look like and
what is the role that Prime and Select
serves in that world?
Yeah, good question. Um, how would I
answer that on a on a high-level
overview in a sense? Um, I would say,
uh, we don't want to have a world where
like all the like future value of AI in
all kinds of verticals is just owned by
the big labs. Um, we, uh, have something
where we like empower like entrepreneurs
and enterprises and so on to actually,
uh, not get steamrolled in a sense and,
uh, like optimize their products, uh,
um, yeah, better than they have the
tools, uh, for doing so right now. And,
um, yeah, just enabling this and, yeah,
a lot more, uh, like Claude Claude
moments, a lot more Cursor for X type
moments, um,
that will be enabled through this.
Every company is an AI lab?
Kind of. In some ways, yeah. I mean, if
if data is the bottleneck, if having the
real expertise is the bottleneck, like,
would you rather have the smartest
person in history work at your company
or someone who's been there for 30
years?
And in some ways, sometimes you really
want the person who's been there for 30
years. There's a lot of expertise that
comes from really understanding a
problem deeply and interacting with it
over a long time. And this is really
what happens in training that is almost
impossible to replicate in a a short
prompt, where, um, you really want the
ability for institutional knowledge to
compound over time, for best practices
to compound over time. And this is how
institutions and companies, uh, grow to
be really powerful and successful is
they stand on the shoulders of what
they've done before, rather than kind of
resetting every day. Yeah. And we want
to have this be accessible to any
company that wants to do this. And I
think that's how we've thought about
approaching it, especially as software
becomes easier for people to manipulate
as the barrier to entry for coding
becomes easier. We see the same
happening for AI research.
It's really inspiring vision for the
world. Thank you guys so much for
joining today. You've really paved the
way on environments and your environment
hub and thank you for taking the time to
demystify [music]
what an environment is and and share
your vision for the future.
Thanks. Thank you.